README.md, before:

# Gophercon 2024

The is the repository for the hardware hack session at Gophercon 2024.

https://gophercon.com/

### If you received a GopherBadger2040, it is yours to keep. Please return all other equipment when you are finished for the next person. Thank you!

## Installation

Please read our [installation instructions here](./INSTALL.md).

## Activities

### Badger2040-W Hacking

![Badger2040-W](./images/badger2040-w.webp)

If you are one of the very fortunate individuals to have received a Badger2040 badge tha tis programmable using TinyGo, it is in fact yours to keep!

Go to https://github.com/hybridgroup/badger2040 for more info.

### Parrot Minidrones

![Parrot Minidrone](./images/minidrone.jpg)

We have Parrot Minidrones you can fly with Go code to control them using their built-in Bluetooth API.

Post in-flight videos using hashtag #gophercon

Ready for takeoff? Go to [./drone/minidrone/](./drone/minidrone/).

### Powerup Miniblimps

![Powerup](images/powerup-balloon.jpg)

We have miniature blimps using modified Powerup programmable paper airplanes that you can fly with Go code to control them using their built-in Bluetooth API.

Post in-flight videos using hashtag #gophercon

Ready for takeoff? Go to [./drone/powerup/](./drone/powerup/).

### WowWee MiP robots

![WowWee MiP](./images/mip.png)

Along for the ride, we brought a couple of WowWee MiP two-wheeled self-balancing robots that you control using Bluetooth.

Post robot videos using hashtag #gophercon

Ready to roll? Go to https://github.com/hybridgroup/tinygo-mip.

### WowWee CHiP robot dog

![WowWee CHiP](./images/chip.jpg)

We also brought our WowWee CHiP the robot dog that you control using Bluetooth.

This is a challenge activity: help us complete the implementation for the complete API.

Post robot videos using hashtag #gophercon

Ready to ddo some new tricks? Go to https://github.com/hybridgroup/tinygo-chip.

### Sphero Ollie robots

![Sphero Ollie](./images/ollie.jpg)

Turns out we had a few unopened Sphero Ollie robots that we found just in time for Gophercon! These fast Bluetooth controlled robotic toys have long been a Go programmer fan favorite.

There are a few of these cylindrical robots to help satisfy your need for speed.

Want to take one for a spin? Go to [./robot/sphero/](./robot/sphero/).

### TinyGo Open LED Race

![TinyGo OpenLEDRace](./images/ledrace-input2.gif)

Minimalist race game with an LED strip.

For more information, please go to https://github.com/conejoninja/ledrace

### TinyGo IoT sensors

![Arduino Nano RP2040](./sensor/arduino/assets/step6.jpg)

Looking for the true "parts experience"? Got you covered! We have brought some Arduino Nano RP2040 Connect IoT microcontroller boards for each person to use for the activity.

https://store.arduino.cc/collections/boards/products/arduino-nano-rp2040-connect

These can be programmed using TinyGo.

There are some Grove sensor kits that you can use for the activity.

Ready to try this out? Go to [./sensor/arduino/](./sensor/arduino/) to get started.

### TinyGo Music Jam

![Controller mk2](./images/music-mk2.jpg)

Make your own electronic musical instruments using TinyGo and the Raspberry Pi Nano boards.

Thanks to the USB-MIDI support, you can turn your board into a tiny digital musical instrument controller.

Add buttons, sliders, a joystick, and when we say become part of the music we mean it!

Let's make beautiful music together, just go to [./musicjam/](./musicjam/).

## Bounties

We have some additional bounties and prizes, [you can see more information here](./BOUNTIES.md).

## License

Copyright (c) 2015-2023 The Hybrid Group and friends. Licensed under the MIT license.

Commit message:

README: update instructions on how to do bluetooth discovery
Signed-off-by: Achille Roussel <achille.roussel@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

# Gophercon 2024

The is the repository for the hardware hack session at Gophercon 2024.

https://gophercon.com/

### If you received a GopherBadger2040, it is yours to keep. Please return all other equipment when you are finished for the next person. Thank you!

## Installation

Please read our [installation instructions here](./INSTALL.md).

## Activities

### Badger2040-W Hacking

![Badger2040-W](./images/badger2040-w.webp)

If you are one of the very fortunate individuals to have received a Badger2040 badge tha tis programmable using TinyGo, it is in fact yours to keep!

Go to https://github.com/hybridgroup/badger2040 for more info.

### Parrot Minidrones

![Parrot Minidrone](./images/minidrone.jpg)

We have Parrot Minidrones you can fly with Go code to control them using their built-in Bluetooth API.

Post in-flight videos using hashtag #gophercon

Ready for takeoff? Go to [./drone/minidrone/](./drone/minidrone/).

### Powerup Miniblimps

![Powerup](images/powerup-balloon.jpg)

We have miniature blimps using modified Powerup programmable paper airplanes that you can fly with Go code to control them using their built-in Bluetooth API.

Post in-flight videos using hashtag #gophercon

Ready for takeoff? Go to [./drone/powerup/](./drone/powerup/).

### WowWee MiP robots

![WowWee MiP](./images/mip.png)

Along for the ride, we brought a couple of WowWee MiP two-wheeled self-balancing robots that you control using Bluetooth.

Post robot videos using hashtag #gophercon

Ready to roll? Go to https://github.com/hybridgroup/tinygo-mip.

### WowWee CHiP robot dog

![WowWee CHiP](./images/chip.jpg)

We also brought our WowWee CHiP the robot dog that you control using Bluetooth.

This is a challenge activity: help us complete the implementation for the complete API.

Post robot videos using hashtag #gophercon

Ready to ddo some new tricks? Go to https://github.com/hybridgroup/tinygo-chip.

> :info: take a look at the [./tools](./tools) directory for instructions on how to do bluetooth discovery

### Sphero Ollie robots

![Sphero Ollie](./images/ollie.jpg)

Turns out we had a few unopened Sphero Ollie robots that we found just in time for Gophercon! These fast Bluetooth controlled robotic toys have long been a Go programmer fan favorite.

There are a few of these cylindrical robots to help satisfy your need for speed.

Want to take one for a spin? Go to [./robot/sphero/](./robot/sphero/).

### TinyGo Open LED Race

![TinyGo OpenLEDRace](./images/ledrace-input2.gif)

Minimalist race game with an LED strip.

For more information, please go to https://github.com/conejoninja/ledrace

### TinyGo IoT sensors

![Arduino Nano RP2040](./sensor/arduino/assets/step6.jpg)

Looking for the true "parts experience"? Got you covered! We have brought some Arduino Nano RP2040 Connect IoT microcontroller boards for each person to use for the activity.

https://store.arduino.cc/collections/boards/products/arduino-nano-rp2040-connect

These can be programmed using TinyGo.

There are some Grove sensor kits that you can use for the activity.

Ready to try this out? Go to [./sensor/arduino/](./sensor/arduino/) to get started.

### TinyGo Music Jam

![Controller mk2](./images/music-mk2.jpg)

Make your own electronic musical instruments using TinyGo and the Raspberry Pi Nano boards.

Thanks to the USB-MIDI support, you can turn your board into a tiny digital musical instrument controller.

Add buttons, sliders, a joystick, and when we say become part of the music we mean it!

Let's make beautiful music together, just go to [./musicjam/](./musicjam/).

## Bounties

We have some additional bounties and prizes, [you can see more information here](./BOUNTIES.md).

## License

Copyright (c) 2015-2023 The Hybrid Group and friends. Licensed under the MIT license.
